# System.ComponentModel.ICollectionViewLiveShaping interface

When live sorting, grouping, or filtering is enabled, a <xref:System.Windows.Data.CollectionView> will rearrange the position of data in the <xref:System.Windows.Data.CollectionView> when the data is modified. For example, suppose that an application uses a <xref:System.Windows.Controls.DataGrid> to list stocks in a stock market and the stocks are sorted by stock value. If live sorting is enabled on the stocks' <xref:System.Windows.Data.CollectionView>, a stock's position in the <xref:System.Windows.Controls.DataGrid> moves when the value of the stock becomes greater or less than another stock's value.

The <xref:System.Windows.Data.ListCollectionView>, <xref:System.Windows.Data.BindingListCollectionView>, and <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ItemCollection> classes implement the <xref:System.ComponentModel.ICollectionViewLiveShaping> interface. The <xref:System.Windows.Data.CollectionViewSource> class also implements the properties defined by <xref:System.ComponentModel.ICollectionViewLiveShaping> to enable setting the properties in XAML.

## Notes for inheritors

Implement this interface on your custom <xref:System.Windows.Data.CollectionView> to support sorting, grouping, and filtering data in real time. Your <xref:System.Windows.Data.CollectionView> can implement the sorting, grouping, and filtering operations itself, or you can delegate one or more of them to another object, such as the underlying collection. If you delegate the shaping operations, the <xref:System.Windows.Data.CollectionView> might not have control over whether live shaping is enabled. Your <xref:System.Windows.Data.CollectionView> must accept the behavior of the object to which it delegates. In this case, set the appropriate `CanChange` properties to `false`. If your <xref:System.Windows.Data.CollectionView> knows whether the delegate object supports live shaping, it can set the appropriate `IsLive` properties to the known value. Otherwise, the <xref:System.Windows.Data.CollectionView> should set the `IsLive` properties to `null`.
